Are right and here we go for the final tutorial I just restarted the kernel here to reset everything
because once again we're going to execute the code several times to do some tests.
And in this final tutorial we're going to plug the histogram of the selections to see how fast Thompson
sampling is able to identify that is to catch that best strategy that has the highest conversion rate.
So first of all we're going to check in did that it mostly selected the strategy over the 10000 rounds
and then over 1000 rounds only and then we'll try to see from which round exactly it was able to really
identify it.
So let's do this let's plot the histogram and that's where that plot laid that pipe comes into play.
Because indeed to plot this we're going to use my plot live which has a shortcut P L T and from matplotlib
we're going to call the histogram function called just actually function inside which we simply input.
Well the list of strategies selected by Tompson sampling and this list remember we introduced it right
here Strachey's selected Thompson sampling and that's we run and populated each time here you know at
each round and in this huge for loop looping over the 10000 round right here Strachey's elected Tums
and sampling that append the strategy selected at this specific round that is for this specific customer.
So let's base that here and that's it.
You know that could be done we could be done with the plot here but I always like to give a nice title
and give some nice labels to the x axis the y axis and sometimes some legends.
He wanted legends but let's give a title first so I'm calling the title function again from matplotlib
and here it in quotes.
I'm going to put the title in let's say that it is histogram of selections.
OK then let's give a label to the x axis or I'm using the X label function.
And again quotes I'm going to give the following label to the x axis which will be strategy because
indeed and this histogram on the x axis will have each of the nine strategies and for each of the nine
strategies we'll have on the y axis the number of times each of these nine strategies was selected.
And that's why the next step here is to plot the Y Levo which will be exactly what we just said.
That is the number of times the strategy was selected perfect number of times the strategy was selected
for each of the nine stretches.
And then finally last thing we're going to ask by then to show it just like that so that we can indeed
see it.
All right.
And that's.
That was actually the last and final line of this whole implementation.
So as you can see we can appreciate the contrast between the power of Tompson sampling and its simplicity
because it required less than one hundred lines of code.
That's pretty awesome.
All right so let's just check the number of rounds we have here.
Well remember we tried with one hundred thousand rounds but let's first try with ten thousand rounds.
Our original number of rounds and now we're ready to select everything and check if indeed the best
strategy that is the one with the highest conversion rate was the one most selected by Thompson sampling.
This is exactly what we're about to see on this histogram that we just played it.
So here we go let's execute.
And here is the histogram indeed on this histogram strategy number seven.
So it has indexes because indexes started 0 but it is the strategy number 7 and it is the one that was
mostly selected the most selected by Thompson sampling and some of them were also pretty much selected
of course much less than this one but these will correspond of course to the other strategies.
Had a good conversion rate.
Remember that this is stretching them before and it had I think 0.16 know 16 percent conversion rate.
And this one's range number to remember had 0.13 13 percent conversion rates.
That's why they were also pretty much selected.
But you have to understand that they were actually selected around the beginning of the process.
You know when Thompson sampling was experimenting with the trial error that's when you know at the beginning
around probably the 500 first rounds.
Well the beta distributions of the second strategy here the fourth one year and the best one that is
the seventh one here where probably shifted the three of them to the right and this one was not yet
shifted much more than the other ones to the right.
You know that's why there were some selections of these strategies at the beginning but then this one
was more and more shifted to the right compared to these two.
And this one as well and the more it was shifted to the right the higher was the density of conversion
rates for that 7 strategy and that's when Thompson sampling started to mostly only select the strategy
number seven.
That's what happens you know during the whole process.
And now what I would like to check out is if we also get that kind of curve you know with this dominant
selection of strategy number seven with only one thousand rounds Let's check that it's going to be interesting
because indeed if that's the case that means that Thompson sampling will have been able to identify
the best strategy in less than 1000 rounds.
You know at this point we don't know if it identified it in the first thousand rounds or in the second
thousand rounds or maybe in the 5000 rounds.
I don't know.
We don't know so that's what we would like to check right now and therefore I'm going to update that
to 1000 rounds.
I'm going to save I'm going to reset everything even if we don't really have to restart.
Colonel Yes and now let's execute that again with 1000 rounds.
Here we go.
OK.
So here you see that's interesting.
With 1000 rounds.
Thompson sampling was still able to identify the best strategy because indeed it is still the one that
was most selected.
So that's really good but of course since only one dozen rounds happened here and during the first hundred
rounds.
Well Thompson something was exploring to see which one was the best strategy and some of these strategies
had their beta distributions still shifted pretty much to the right.
And that's why a lot of them were selected here in 1000 rounds so that's why we get this.
And now let's push it even further.
Let's try with 500 rounds.
You know let's see if in 500 rounds.
Well Thompson something we're still able to identify this best strategy strategy number seven.
So I just restore the kernel again and I'm selecting everything again and executing again.
Oh wow that's impressive.
So maybe we were lucky on this one.
Let's do this again actually OK see where we're lucky on this one.
I knew this.
It requires time and sampling more than 500 rounds to really really identify the best range we can do
it again just to make sure.
But you know if we got this once at least that means that 500 rounds is not enough.
So you know probably Tompson sampling and defy the best strategy between 500 rounds and 1000 rounds
and actually we can check that in our strategy selected TS list but to check this let's put that back
to 10000 rounds and let's see at reach round approximately.
Thompson something was able to identify the best strategy.
So I'm going to show you you're going to understand what I mean when I want to do right now.
So let's execute that again 10000 rounds.
Ok we get a good Instagram for sure.
But now let's have a look at our strategy selected T S list which is a list of the strategies selected
by Tomsen sampling over the rounds.
Here are all the strategies selected at each round so these other rounds starting from zero and here
are strategies.
So remember what we want to check is from which round we get mostly our best strategy selected.
And since these are still indexes then the best Regy which is tragen number seven but has index 6 because
again indexes started 0.
So let's see from which round we only see six.
So I'm going to enlarge this.
So right now we are at the 100 rounds and we don't see much.
We don't see many sixes here.
That's because it's the beginning it's still exploring the beta distributions of at least the top three
best strategies with the top three highest conversion rates are still a bit shifted to the right.
But then as you can see here we can see more and more six square in terms and something's starting to
realize what is the best strategy.
That's when the beta distribution of the seventh strategy starts to be pretty well shifted to the right
compared to the other beta distributions of the other strategies.
And see here we are almost reaching the 500 round.
And as I told you we don't see dominant sixes you no index is of the seven strategy which is our best
strategy.
So that's why it 500 rounds in know when we tested with an equal 500 rounds.
Well the histogram was pretty borderline but as we progressed further further into the rounds.
Well naturally we're going to see more and more sixes we can already feel that you know we can already
see that we have more and more sixes as it is the case here.
You know here we have reached 700 rounds and we can indeed see many more sixes.
You know a dummy selection of the strategy of index that is the seven strategy.
And then here we almost reach 1000 rounds and still we can see now we can see now we can really see
many more sixes.
Of course sometimes we still see some other strategies like that.
That's because some other beta distributions of other strategies have high conversion rates with still
a non-zero probability.
Or you know a not too low probability but really really over time statistically Well of course what
we get is mostly selection of the seven strategy because of course it's beta distribution is really
more shifted to the right with therefore highly positive probabilities by highly positive.
No I mean 20 percent or 15 percent for the highest range of conversion rates.
Now I'm going to scroll down much more and really we can only see success here mostly.
That's exactly what we said.
We can see mostly sixes and sometimes other strategies selected because we still have a non-zero probability
for lower conversion rates but there we go.
Now I'm really scrolling down and I'm having the impression that I'm only seeing success and we finally
reached the final round with mostly selections of strategy number seven of index is perfect.
So that's what I wanted to show you to finish this section.
So keep in mind that we did a huge accomplishment here again you know relative return of 97 percent
that is our Tompson something else doubled the performance of our Random strategy benchmark.
And as we saw in the Perusia Tauriel this online retail business made a tremendous amount of money thanks
to our powerful Tompson something algorithm.
So congratulations for tackling the third case study on this.
Good note I'm going to leave you with a little homework now and I'll provide the solution right after
that.
So really try to do it by yourself.
Have fun with it.
And until then enjoy AI.